---
title: Flat Tire
category: city-life
---

Last night while riding home from work on my bike I got a flat tire. My first thought, which is so typically me, was, "Oh cool, now I get to learn how to change a flat tire!"

(This attitude lasted _almost_ the whole mile and a half walk home.)

Of all the things I took an interest in this year biking was far and away the best one. I love riding my bike. I love pedalling through our ([temporary](http://torrez.org/2016/07/the-fire/)) neighborhood in the morning. I love leaving work, winding my way through cars stuck in traffic on 5th, and joining a wave of cyclists on Market headed home.

It also caused a few big changes in my life. The obvious one is the benefits of riding a bike for 10 miles a day in San Francisco. I sleep better. I feel stronger. After a school event the parents were asked to wheel some tables up a hill and I amazed myself at not only how easy it was for me, but how little it changed my heartrate.

The second change has been I get to work within about 30 minutes of leaving my house. A bus takes about an hour including my walk from the closest stop. There are no trains in the part of the city we live and so bus has been the only real option and now I'm happy to have put it aside with my bike. Being able to control my time to work has been a real mood-lifter as well.

Outside of my health and getting to work on time, the other thing that riding to work did was get me over my fear of riding a bike in traffic. I read a bit before going out and learned how to bike in San Francisco. Most (all?) US cities are not bike-friendly and San Francisco is no different. While getting a wheel stuck in train tracks is particular to SF, another is that the bike lanes we do have often have parked cars in them and you have to ride out into traffic to get around them. Uber drivers routinely do this and a lost Uber driver will suddenly flip a u-turn in front of you without even noticing they did. Or they'll turn left in front of you mid-block to meet their fare.

It was such a small thing getting on a bike, but it feels like it changed my life in so many ways. I can't even believe I waited so long!
